Components of Amazon VPC

Amazon VPC comprises a variety of objects that will be familiar to customers with existing networks:

1.A Virtual Private Cloud: 
A logically isolated virtual network in the AWS cloud. You define a VPC’s IP address space from the ranges you select.
2.Subnet: 
A segment of a VPC’s IP address range where you can place groups of isolated resources.
3.Internet Gateway: 
The Amazon VPC side of a connection to the public Internet.
4.NAT Gateway: 
A highly available, managed Network Address Translation (NAT) service for your resources in a private subnet to access the Internet.
5.Route Table: 
A route table contains a set of rules, called routes, that are used to determine where network traffic from your subnet or gateway is directed.
6.DNS Hostname: 
The Amazon DNS server resolves a public DNS hostname to the public IPv4 address of the instance outside the network of the instance.
7.CIDR: 
Classless Inter-Domain Routing


steps:

1. Create VPC (11.0.0.0/16)
2. Create public and private subnets (11.0.0.0/24 , 11.0.1.0/24 , 11.0.2.0/24 , 11.0.3.0/24)
3. create IGW and attach to VPC
4. Route Table concept:
	a. Main route table — 
			The route table that automatically comes with your VPC. It controls the routing for all subnets that are not explicitly associated with any other route table.
	b. Custom route table-
			A route table that you create for your VPC
	c. Edge association-
			A route table that you use to route inbound VPC traffic to an appliance. You associate a route table with the internet gateway or virtual private gateway, and specify the network interface of your appliance as the target for VPC traffic.
	d. Route table association -
			The association between a route table and a subnet, internet gateway, or virtual private gateway.
	e. Subnet route table -
			A route table that’s associated with a subnet
	f. Gateway route table — 
			A route table that’s associated with an internet gateway or virtual private gateway.
	g. Local gateway route table -
			 A route table that’s associated with an Outposts local gateway. 
	h. Destination -
			The range of IP addresses where you want traffic to go (destination CIDR). For example, an external corporate network with a 172.16.0.0/12 CIDR.
	i. Target -
			The gateway, network interface, or connection through which to send the destination traffic; for example, an internet gateway.
	j. Local route-
			A default route for communication within the VPC
			
5. Create a public route table
6. Add IGW in public route table
7. add public subnets in public route table
8. create NAT gateway in public subnet
9. Add NAT gateway to private RT. (0.0.0.0/0)
10. Add priavte subnets in private RT.
11.launch ec2 instance in public (auto enable ipv4 and enable dns in VPC)-- ssh globally available
12. launch ec2 instance in private (auto enable ipv4 and enable dns in VPC) -- ssh locally available.



Delete:

Terminate EC2 instances, which will remove the network interface card (NIC), attached with Private or Public IP
Remove Elastic IP
Terminate NAT Gateway
Dtattached Internet Gateway (IGW)
Delete IGW
At last, you can Delete your VPC, and this step will delete all the related VPC resources.